# Grazioso_Salvare_Animal_Shelter_Dashboard
Project two from SNHU CS-340: Client/Server Development. This is a full-stack application using MongoDB and Python to visualize animal shelter data.

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
Writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is a critical part of software development. Developers should minimize repeated or tedious work, and modular software is an effective method to do this. The python_crud module developed and used as the driver between the Dash frontend and MongoDB backend was designed to be completely modular, parameterizing each of the variables required to connect to a given MongoDB server; using the module required only implementing it in another Python project.

## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
Computer scientists must approach problems they are presented with in a logical and programmatical mindset. For this project, Grazioso Salvare's requirements stated that they needed an easy-to-use method of visualizing animal shelter data to help identify prime candidates for service animal training. A computer scientist must analyze this requirement and turn it into functional requirements - the customer wants a visual dashboard with data representations like tables or graphs to view their data.

## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Generally, computer scientists develop software that increases efficiency by making everyday tasks easier. With this project, developing an easy-to-use data analysis dashboard that automatically interfaces with the MongoDB server dramatically reduces the manual work that Grazioso Salvare's team has to do. Rather than users having to open a MongoDB shell and perform manual queries and then parsing the not-so-easy-to-read data that's returned, this dashboard abstracts that process to just a simple dropdown menu and a few table clicks.
